The questions that this research is going to answer are: 
(a) How well neural network methods will perform for seasonal items forecasting? 
(b) Which of these traditional and innovative time-series forecasting methods will obtain the most accurate results?

Classical Time Series Methods
Moving Average (MA) is one of the simplest prediction techniques for making projections about time-series without a noticeable 
seasonal pattern. 

Multivariate ARIMA to perform demand forecasting on perishable goods. 
ARIMA + NN for Network traffic forecasting
ARIMA for cyrtocurrency price forecasting based on the impact of social media. 

Seasonal ARIMA (SARIMA) for forecasting tourism demand and predicting vehicular traffic flow
But is limited in prediction because its linear for and inability to detect nonlinear and highly volatile patterns.
Seasonal Support Vector Regression (SSVR) ends up being superior in this problem compared to SARIMA. 

Exponential Smoothing Methods
	Triple exponential smoothing/Holt-Winter Smoothing
	Seasonal exponetial smoothing
Other Advanced Methods
	Greedy Aggregation Decomposition (GAD) overcomes limited space in retailer invetory related to their Stock Keeping Units (SKU) daily demands.

Prophet Method and Artificial Neural Networks time-series forecasting methods
	Prophet method is new and not been investigating thoroughly
	Prophet yields similar results as traditional forecasting methods 
	When forecasting hospital discharge volume prediction, the results were better with Prophet than SARIMA
	ARIMA + Prophet for forecasting Covid disease in Indonesia

	Aggregated time-series are defined as large collections of time-series that are combined with different techniques, and
	they are usually more accurate than disaggregated forecasts.
	
	ANNs outperformed HW exponential smoothing and Box Jenkins techniques. 
	ANNs + Regression Trees for forecasting energy cost of public buildings. 
	ANNs for sales forecasting since theyre flexible for detecting patterns in data
	Multi-layer Perceptrons (MLP) are a universal approximator function, feedforward NN method that has one layer or more of hidden units
	Deseasonalizing and detrending can prevent high variable in results and can improve accuracy. 
	Seasonal ANNs (SANN) detemines # of neurons based on seasonal fluctations in the pattern.
	ANN using ARIMA is good

Deep Learning
	Multi-layer Perceptrons
	XGBoost > Deep Learning > Logistic Regression
	RNNs (LSTM) for detecting anomalies in time-series
	CNNs can detect changes in trends


Case Study Information

Each of time-series can be described by important components like trend, cyclicality, and seasonality. 
Trend refers to the overall upward or downward movement. 
Cyclicality is when a repeating pattern is available, but there is no fixed period. 
Seasonality can be defined as periodic fluctuations in the time-series.

A time series is called stationary if its statistical features (e.g., mean, standard deviation) continue steadily over time, and this is highly 
important because if a time-series is stationary, there is a high probability that it will repeat its behavior in the future, and therefore 
it will be easier to forecast. 

Dickey-Fuller test and rolling statistics plot can check for stationarity. 
The objective of Augmented Dickey Fuller (ADF) test is to decide that the time-series is stationary or non-stationary by checking the
presence of unit root in a time-series. This method observes the difference between the value level and the mean. If it was higher 
than the mean, the next movement will be downward.
The null hypothesis states that the time-series in non-stationary
(ğœ† = 0). If this hypothesis is rejected, it shows that the next movement
(Î”ğ‘¦(ğ‘¡)) is not just a random value, and it depends on the current level
ğ‘¦(ğ‘¡ âˆ’ 1). Thus, stationary. 