Time Series Analytics is an important part of predictive analytics dealing with making predictions by applying time
series forecasting.

Time Series is a sequence of data points taken in timely order.
	Uninterrupted set of successive data observations that have order in time in equally space intervals

Contrary to time series, cross-sectional data record are collected at the same point of time or without regard
to difference in time.  

Why Time Series Forecasting in Business?
Forecasting is a necessary tool to reduce the uncertainty (risk) in decision making. Better decisions come from better
forecasts. Forecasting serves as a starting point of major decisions in finance, marking, operations, purchasing,and
other functions.

Decisions Require Time Series Forecasting
	Predicting demands of new and existing products in the following time period.
	Projecting revenues, profits, expenses, and other financial results into the future. 
	Estimating the rate of quality improvement over a period of time
	Predicting stock prices in the next day, month or year
	Predicting inventory requirements in the next year
	Forecasting number of air passengers in the future
	
Notations
	t - time period index 
	yt(Yt) - value of series at time period t
	F_t+k - forecast for time period t+k, k is the number of steps forward
	e_t = error = yt-Ft

Forecasting Equals Science Plus Art
	Sciences implies that the body of the forecasting knowledge lies on the solid ground of quantitative forecasting
	methods and their correct utilization for various business situations.

	Art represents a combo of a decision makers experience, logic, and intuition to supplement the forecasting of
	quantitative analysis. Management abilities should be involved in the forecasting process.
Both are essentials, all managers are forecasters, and better forecasting is most critical these days. 


Principles of Time Series Forecasting
	Main assumption: past pattern repeats itself into the future
	Forecasts are rarely perfect: dont expect exact equality to the actual data
	Science and Art try to minimize but do not eliminate errors
Forecast for a group of products (aggregated forecasting) is usually more accurate than forecasts for an individual item.
Forecasts for shorter periods of time tend to be more accurate. 

High Level Forecasting Process
	Define Goal
	Get data
	Exokire & Visualize series
	Pre-process data
	Partition Series 
	Apply forecasting method(s)
	Evaluate & Compare Performance
	Implement Forecasts/System


Step 1: Define Goal
Discriptive or Predictive
	Descriptive
		Descriptive stats
		Correlation of successive data points - autocoreelation
		Patterns: trends, seasonality, etc
		Visualization
		Relationships to external factors
	Predictive
		Forecast the future time series points for which the actual time series data is not available. 

Forecast Horizon
	How far into the future? (k in F_t+k)
	Long term vs. short term forecasting?
	Rolling forward or at single time point?
	How frequently the model should be examined?

Forecast Usage
	Who are stakeholders and how many?
	Should forecasts be numerical or binary? (event/non-event)
	Will forecast undergo adjustments?

Forecast expertise and automation
	In house forecasting or consultants?
	How man series and how often will be forecasted?
	One-time forecasting or ongoing tasks?
	Which data and software will be available for forecasting?
	Implications:
		How much data is needed
		Choice of forecasting methods
		Forecasting software used?
		Expected levels of accuracy?
		Model Deployment

Forecasting Software
	Excel
	General stats with forecasting modules: JMP, SPSS, Minitab, Stata
	Specialized forecasting packages for business: Forecast Pro, Amazon Forecast
	General languages: R, Python, C++
