Step 2: Data Collection

Data Quality 
	Sample size is relatively small, typically no more than a few hundred values in a series
	With multiple sources, collection may be done from different depeartments, so compare and
	choose the best data to apply.
	Additional data may be collected in the future from the same source.
	External data may be also required to do a more accurate forecasting
Temperal frequency
	Consider frequency of time series is the same as the frequency of the required forecast
		If the goal to forecast is next day enegry usage in a building, then minute-by-minute or hourly
		is less useful than daily aggregates of historical data.
		High frequency data may have more noise, while aggregated data will reduce it
	Sometimes: we aggregate data, aggregate model forecasts and then disaggregate the forecasting results
Series Granularity
	Refers to the coverage of the data
		Geographical area, population, time of operations, etc.
		Depending on the forecast goal, series granularity may require different depth eg forecasting
		general population growth vs. forecast of population of various age groups, states, regions, etc.
	Level of granularity needs to be aligned with the forecasting goal
	Exploring different aggregation and data slicing levels are often needed to obtain appropriate time series
Domain Expertise
	Is needed to identify which data to employ (daily vs. hourly, how far back, and from what source, etc_
	Help to evaluate practical implications of forecasting results
	Requires communication and coordination between business data analysts that perform forecasting and domain experts


Step 3: Explore & Visualize Series

Explore time series step is used to do preliminary time series analysis of the data
In particular
	Identify data patterns (components) of the historical time series data
	Use autocorrelation to investigate various data patterns

Time Series Components
	Systematic part components
		Level (stationary) describes the average value of the series
		Trend is the upward or downward change in the series from one period to the next
		Seasonality is a short-term cyclical behavior observed several times in a time series
	Non-systematic part component
		Noise (randomness) - random variations resulting from measurement error or other causes not accounted for
	Time Series components are commonly considered either additive or multiplicative
		Additive: Y_t = Level + trend + Seasonality + Noise
		Multiplicative components: Y_t = Level * trend * Seasonality * Noise
	While not all time series have trend and/or seasonality, all series have a level
	Forecasting methods attempt to isolate the systematic part and quantify noise 
		Systematic part is used to generate point forecasts
		Noise helps asses the uncertainty associated with point forecasts

Autocorrelation represents the correlation between a random variable itself and the same variabled lagged one or more
periods.

Autocorrelation coefficients is a measure of autocorrelation between a variable itself and the same variabled lagged k periods.

If a time series is random, the autocorrelations for any lag are close to zero. 
	Successive values of a time series are note related to each other. 

Autocorrelation function identifies and plots multiple autocorrelation coeffs for various lags of time series data
	It also calculates and plots interval (horizontal lines) to identify significant autocorrelation

Correlogram is a plot of autocorrelation for various lags and can be used to analyze the autocorrelation coeffs for
different time lags and answers the following questions:
	Does the time series data have...
		level (stationary) component?
		trend component?
		seasonal component?

Analyzing Patterns with Autocorrelation
	Series with trends
		Positive autocorrelation coeff are significantly greater from zero for the first lag or first several
		periods of lag and then may gradually drop down, sometimes to zero or negative values
	Series with seasonality
		Autocorrelation coeffs are significant at the appropriate time lag:
			lag 4 for quarterly data, lag 12 for monthly data
	Series with level (stationary) pattern
		Autocorrelation coeffs decline fairly rapidly, generally after the second-to-fourth-time lag

Visualize series step is used as an effective initial step for characterizing the nature of time series
May detect potential issues with the data such as:
	Extreme values
	Unequal spacing
	Missing values
Time plot is the most basic but not very informative 


Step 4: Preprocess Data
Used to detect potential issues and challenges with data
	Extreme values
	Data entry errors
	Missing values
	Unequal spacing 
	Irrelevant periods
	Time span (how far back?)
May require data cleaning to remove times series issues.